
Node 2
That is not dead which can eternal lie,
And with strange aeons even death may die.


Node 3
Every Wednesday for the past 8 years I have received a letter
from my great uncle George Gammell Angell. It wasn't until 3
weeks ago that the correspondence came to a sudden halt.
That was precisely why I chose to take some time off from
work today to pay him a visit.
My uncle was a professor of Semitic Languages at Miskatonic
University, Arkham. A known figure locally, whom museums came
to when they needed information regarding ancient inscriptions.
I must've knocked on his door like ten times before he opened
just a crack. Immediately, I recognized a strange perplexing look in
his eyes, one that I've never seen on his face before. When he
asked me what I was doing there I can sense his anxiety from
behind the door. I told him I haven't heard from him in a while so I
came down just to make sure he was alright. He looked back 
at me with a blank face. I wasn't sure if he was grasping my 
words but that was when he invited me into his office.


Node 4
His office was covered in drawings and sculptures each
displaying some sort of horrific creature. My uncle has never
shown the least bit of interest in art for as long as I've known him
but somehow I knew these were his. Each one seemed to display
the same nightmarish monster. I can only describe what I saw as
some perverted combination of a dragon, an octopus, and a 
human caricature.
I sat in a seat across from him and with the same anxiety he
exhibited before, he told me he's been seeing a monster in
his dreams.
I assumed then that it was just his line of work that was affecting
him in his age of 92. I still found it quite strange though as 
I would've never imagined I'd see somebody of my uncle's 
character succumb to such a poor mental state.


Node 6
I decided to visit one of uncle's acquaintances, Inspector 
Legrasse. He was my uncle's neighbor and also the local 
do-gooder. Upon reaching the police station, I found Legrasse 
talking to some frantic woman about her missing son. Apparently 
there's been reports of a dangerous and mysterious cult that's 
been kidnapping women and children from a nearby squatter 
community. One of the squatters was able to steal a bas-relief 
from them, it was thought to be some kind of object of worship. 
It showed a monstrous creature that vaguely resembled an 
anthropoid octopus sitting above a pedestal with some 
hieroglyphics. The indecipherable characters looked identical 
to those I've seen in my uncle's drawings. They explained they 
were about to go raid the location of their encampment and 
could use some extra men.


Node 7
About a month has passed since my visit with Professor Angell; 
nothing was heard for some time. The incidents that unfolded 
I first discovered from the newspapers then the words of the 
residents nearby.
According to the neighbors, he ran frantically out the front door. 
The expression on his face, a face ghastly enough in response, 
was beyond expression. One of the neighbors went to check on 
him but he ran back inside and disappeared into the cellar. 
The neighbor was dumbfounded and watched but Prof. Angell 
did not return. A smell of oil was all that came up from the 
regions below.
After dark, a rattling was heard from the cellar into the courtyard 
and the professor was seen glistening from head to toe with oil.
Then, a spark appeared and a flame arose and a pillar of fire 
reached to the heavens.
The house of my uncle no longer existed but amongst the rubble 
they recovered the remains of his strangled son and three
grandchildren.


Node 9
We set out to the squatter settlement as a body of twenty 
policemen, plus myself, filling up exactly two carriages and one
automobile. At the end of the road we walked for miles into
the woods and finally reached the primitive settlement. The
wind carried faintly audible blood curdling shrieks.
We followed the sounds as they grew louder and louder.


Node 10
After returning back to my residence I was met with some news
regarding my uncle who had suffered a tragic incident whilst 
returning from the Newport boat. Witnesses confirmed that he 
had been jostled by some nautical-looking negro. Physicians 
were unable to find the exact cause of death but concluded it 
was heart failure induced by so steep a hill by so elderly a man.


Node 11
When we reached the site of the spectacle the sight of the ritual
left all of us hypnotized with horror. There were a horde of mad 
men without clothing leaping and chanting around a ring-shaped 
bonfire. At the center there stood the carven statue just below 
the helpless marred bodies of the squatters.
Legrasse looked at one of his men and then at me and slowly 
handed me a spare handgun from his belt.


Node 12
Terrible tragedy ensued as I was later assaulted by a pair of 
negroes, the same type whom got the best of my uncle. They 
dealt blows of unusual force and beat down on me like a pair 
of untrained circus monkeys. I managed to emit a shrill 
during the attack but there was nobody that came to my aid.



Node 14
Just then we were spotted by one of the men.  He looked at us and 
then some of the fiends next to him did the same. In the span of 
less than twenty seconds we were taken out of the safety of the 
dark woods and waited as what must have been a hundred mad 
men came swarming towards us.
I stood motionless and watched the chaos unfold all around me. 
Wild blows were struck and shots were fired.
At the end Legrasse and his men managed to capture forty-seven 
worshippers. Five were killed and two were severely wounded.



Node 15
Back at the headquarters, we started examining the prisoners. Most 
were sailors largely negroes and mulattoes of the mentally aberrant 
type. It became apparent early on however, that something more than 
negro fetichism was going on. As crazy and ignorant as they were, 
they all held on to the central idea of their loathsome faith.
They worshipped, so they said, the Great Old Ones who lived ages 
before there were any men, and who came to the young world out 
of the sky. Those Old Ones were gone now, inside the earth and 
under the sea; but their dead bodies had told their secrets in 
dreams to the first men, who formed a cult which had never died. 
This was the cult, and the prisoners said it had always existed and 
always would exist, hidden in distant wastes and dark places all over 
the world until the time when the great priest Cthulhu, from his 
dark house in the mighty city of R'lyeh under the waters, should rise 
and bring the earth again beneath his sway. Some day he would call, 
when the stars were ready, and the secret cult would always be 
waiting to liberate him.



Node 16
Now that I knew the source of my uncle's nightmares I headed 
back to reassess the situation. I was however, too late as 
my uncle had supposedly suffered a tragic incident whilst 
returning from the Newport boat. Witnesses confirmed that he 
had been jostled by some nautical-looking negro. Physicians 
were unable to find the exact cause of death but concluded it 
was heart failure induced by so steep a hill by so elderly a man.
Had I heard this earlier during my visit I would have seen no 
reason to dissent from this dictum, but latterly I am inclined to
wonder - had my uncle's death truly been of a natural cause?
I think Professor Angell died because he knew too much, or 
because he was likely to learn too much. Whether I shall go as 
he did remains to be seen, for I have learned much now.



Node 17
I decided to join Legrasse in a voyage to find R'lyeh using 
coordinates obtained from one of the books of the 
cultists.
The realization of my uncle's death plagued my mind
and I was no longer motivated to investigate the source of
his worst nightmares which had already begun to haunt me
in my own dreams. I stared into the empty sea recalling
what'd become of him in the moments before his passing.


Node 19
It's been three days now since we headed out to 
find this mythical city of R'lyeh. My mind 
wanted to tell me that such a place can only exist in 
nightmares and urban legends but as we 
traveled closer and closer to those coordinates  
I became convinced that I would find something 
there that contradicted everything I'd known about 
this strange world before and I felt the dread of
crossing a line that was not meant to be crossed
by ordinary men.


Node 20
I leaped off the side of the ship and allowed myself to be
consumed by the waves.
I have looked upon all that the universe has to hold of horror, and 
even the skies of spring and the flowers of summer must afterward 
be poison to me. The weight of the cult and the morbid Cthulhu 
pulled me into the sinking black abyss. Death would be a salvation 
if only it could blot out the memories.


Node 21
On the fourth day, we had finally begun to see the coast 
of what appeared to be a monolith-crowned citadel atop 
of a single immensely large ill-shapen mountain.It was
nothing less than the nightmarish corpse city of 
R'lyeh that was built in measureless aeons behind 
history by the vast, loathsome shapes that seeped down 
from the dark stars.
There lay great Cthulhu and his hordes, hidden in green 
slimy vaults and sending out at last, after cycles incalculable, 
the thoughts that spread fear to dreams of the sensitive and 
called imperiously to the faithful to come on a pilgrimage 
of liberation and restoration. After vigintillions of years 
great Cthulhu was loose again, and ravening for delight.



Node 23
Legrasse had stood there frozen as he went mad and started 
laughing shrilly at irregular intervals but I had not given up. 
I resolved on a desperate chance and reversed the wheel, setting 
the engine to full speed. There was a foaming in the vile brine and 
as the steam mounted higher and higher, I drove the ship head on 
against the pursuing jelly which rose above the unclean froth. 
There was a bursting and a slushy nastiness as of a cloven fish. 
I drove the ship away but as I turned back I saw the scattered 
plasticity of that nameless sky-spawn nebulously recombining in 
its hateful original form, whilst its distance widened every second 
as the ship gained momentum from its mounting steam.
During the long voyage back home I only attended to a few matters 
of food for myself and the laughing maniac by my side.



Node 24
For a minute I just stood there watching as the great Cthulhu slid 
greasily into the water and began to pursue with vast wave-raising 
strokes of cosmic potency.
I grabbed the wheel of the ship but could not find the strength in my 
arms to turn it as I stood still utterly transfixed. Then, I realized that there 
was no point in turning away now. Had I miraculously managed to survive 
this encounter, I do not think my life will be long. As my uncle went, so I 
shall go. I know too much, and the cult still lives.
I took one last look at the mighty Cthulhu as it approached the ship in all 
its frenzy. Then I just closed me eyes.

